# Rules clear for healthy relationships and the shadow of the past

Answering myself regarding last week assignment, open source's community can't be lightly seen as a community of love moved by common wellness goals. This is a community made of persons whom in some cases care about interpersonal relationships by having kind manners, but in other don't. And as in off-line relationships people can be rude, bigot and disrespectful with diversity.

As is stated in some of the readings, rudeness is a broadly spread problem within Computer Science (CS) culture. I think the reason of it is that the field of engineering is governed by a macho culture in which a supremacy of white male over women and diversity is consistently perpetuated in the way CS tech is taught in the academia, were most teachers are male. I say this from my experience as engineering student 10 years ago. Even though things may have changed since then and also maybe things are different in Chile -where I studied- and the US. But as I can learn from my peers in this class, nothing has changed and women and minorities -specially in tech- are not treated as equals.

In this perspective I really appreciate the ethical concern stated by Saber Khan and discussed in the community of #CSforAll, because since most coders -and technicians- are trained at formal education institutions, those are the places where bad practices are reproduced and where the biggest efforts must be focused on to eradicate them.

But this issue can't be solved only by removing bad practices from academic world but also by establishing rules to define how collaborators must interact within an open source project -the codes of conduct. Efforts carried by organizations as Mozilla with its CoC and template to make decisions when incidents are reported are an example for other open source projects to maintain healthy communities. Same is the case of opensource.guide whom attempt to establish actions that can be taken by open source maintainers to make projects sustainable in time. I really appreciate that examples like these are shown in class.

In Coded Escuela -as an independent school- we work for teaching code without replying old ways of teaching. For us maintaining a healthy community is a priority as we declare the school as a feminist and open source space where people can learn and share knowledges feeling safe independent of each knowledge level. Despite we have not stated a CoC our decisions and activities are governed by a [Manifesto](http://codedescuela.cl/paginas/manifiesto.html) in which we declare the principles that move us.
